# What is Physarum model
Physarum model is mathematical description of the progression of low level mushroom *Physarum Polycephalum*. Physarum model has got two layers, one visual - trail map, and one in the background - data map. In the data map, most of the physarum physics is done. There are many individual particles, each with 3 sensors in front of it. These three sensors sense values from visual layer and based on these values, particles decide, which direction should they move. They tend to move in the direction, where the sensor returns the greatest value, in other words, where is the biggest concentration of other particles. When every particle is moved, then visual layer is refreshed and value of every single pixel is added to the new value according to the number of particles on corresponding coordinates in data layer. This value indicates its brightness. Then, values in visual layer are lowered by some constant amount to simulate evaporating of the trail behind particles. And at the end, values in visual layer are difused to create smoother transition between bright and dark areas. You have to repeat this process for every frame in the final simulation. 
You can find more about Physarum model at this page (https://cargocollective.com/sagejenson/physarum) based on this paper (https://uwe-repository.worktribe.com/output/980579).

# How we used it to visualize data
There are many constants to define at the start of Physarum simulation which affect the progression during time. We have decided to set values of some of these initial constants according to the measured data. Especially we have chosen __SPEED__, __SENSOR_DISTANCE__ and __ROTATE_ANGLE__, because of the way how they affect progression of the simulation. We tried to simulate something like virtual enviroment with particles moving with respect intuition, based on classical mehcanics, how they should move when you change values of temperature and pressure. So we have generated one sequence for every chosen frame from ISS. Initial state of our simulation was chosen frame taken from the board of ISS and physarum constants based on data measured at the same time on the ISS. Final states of the Physarum simulations have been different in such a way we was able to get some overall knowledge about the initial values of the physarum respectively data measured on ISS. 

# How to run your own Physarum
This is public project, so you only need to pull Physarum repo from GitHub and use some python interpreter to run whole module. The only thing you need to chnge in the program are 4 system paths in the beginning of the *constants.py* file. 
